hi everyone in Bay Maine on May oh gee
oh yeah oh hey Joe Oh Dahlia thanks for
downloading this episode of the China
history podcast part five already and
this is my favorite episode in the life
of Deng Xiaoping we left off last time
in the latter half of 1975 after falling
down hard during the Cultural Revolution
Joe and I sorta cajoles mile winter
bringing dung back which he does
officially on March 9 1973 and dung
works tirelessly to bring the nation
back from the brink of disaster very
much like he had done before following
the Great Leap Forward he focuses on
industry education science technology
culture and healing society dung has
formidable enemies his enemies were the
radicals led by the Gang of Four John
Ching Wong home when yawen UN and John
2000 it was thanks to John King's
personal relationship with mall and the
liking the Chairman took to the young
radical and gang a four-member Wong home
one that were Young's most powerful
weapons you got to hand it to jung ching
she really knew how to get mouths goat
she knew just the right things to say
and when to say that and even though the
Chairman had repeatedly rebuked her
publicly and privately and knew she was
eternally up to no good
she still hung in there and kept feeding
him information and spinning the info in
such a way so as to ensure the best
results for whatever her ulterior
motives were because I said many times
before Eid hearts Mao was an
old-fashioned revolutionary and although
he was all settled and lived like an
emperor he didn't want to be complacent
clung to the concept of perpetual
revolution and the one huge gigantic
elephant in the room the one unspoken
thing was how to judge the Cultural
Revolution now considered this his
masterpiece as far as his you know
greatest achievements went this and of
course defeating the Nationalists Mao
considered these his crowning
achievements Mao is so larger-than-life
and powerful and of nipa Tain's who
right mind is gonna walk right into a
buzzsaw and say anything even the
slightest bit critical of the when
hitaka me the cultural revolution
you know 1975 this was only what sixteen
years after pongo by dared to speak up
at the little sean conference you know
about the great leap forward let me tell
you although we ended up dying of cancer
in 1974 you'd be hard-pressed to find
any of China's original lineup going
back to the long march days who suffered
as horribly as panda why did during
Mao's greatest achievement not only did
Poong go way back with Mao he was only
five years younger than the Chairman and
was born only fifty kilometers away from
the Chairman's birthplace but look what
happened to him so speak up say anything
bad about the Cultural Revolution do or
say anything that reflected badly on it
not a good idea better just keep walking
there's nothing to see here everyone
knew the Cultural Revolution was a
disaster and Mao must have felt that
everyone you know sort of felt that way
so in his final years with an eye
towards his legacy and what future
somach ends might say about Mao Zedong
the Chairman had grown particularly
sensitive by mid nineteen seventy five
about possible backtracking on the
Cultural Revolution everyone was saying
how great it was now but what about
after he was gone this is what obsessed
the 82 year old mouth well 83 by Chinese
reckoning the problem is Mao saw it was
in dung shoppings haste to restore order
across every segment of China a lot of
people were being brought back into the
fold who had suffered greatly during the
Cultural Revolution and mal for sure
knew that these guys suffered due to his
policies and his directives
technocrats scientists pragmatists and
whatnot Joe people dung people they all
might have an axe to grind with Mao in
this whole 10-year period so mile feared
this a lot for someone who thought like
Mao it seemed nothing was more important
than preserving his legacy as he wanted
it to be written
and chairman mao zedong I know I keep
saying this by the end of 1975 he's in
his final year of life so all those
times before when I said the Chairman
wasn't in too good of shape now he's
really in bad shape and so he even knew
with every potion or cocktail or a lick
sir of life whatever he was consuming he
didn't have too long so there was this
urgency with Mao to deal with this so
here we are it's 1975 and once again
dung is juggling chain saws and axes and
his attempt to carry out practical and
effective measures and at the same time
not cross the party line and give the
Gang of Four something to point it and
run the mile with by mid year dung had
replaced one home one as the chair of
the top party meetings son's leadership
in 1975 won praise from Mao but by the
end of 1975 once again storm clouds are
beginning to gather around
Douglas person Ezra Vogel goes into
quite a bit of detail about how dung
spent the better part in 1975 trying to
bring order out of chaos with critical
utilities like the railways and the
steel industry both of which had
suffered the worst abuses during the
Cultural Revolution but just as Dunn
feared his enemies seized on his alleged
indifference to party basic principles
and showing too much faith in empiricism
that school of thought most associated
with John Locke well we could go on and
on but I think you catch the drift of
what it was like for dung once he came
back in 1973 he laid low at first hung
and Joanne Lee shadow stayed out of the
limelight then before too long Joanne
lies too sick and frail to meet the
daily demands of being the premier of
China
so then tongue starts to take command
and like I said he danced on his knife
edge and by the end of 1975 Mao saw his
legacy being dismantled and he wasn't
even inside his mausoleum yet it surely
must have made mouth think after he was
gone how far is done gonna go
ma by the end of 1975 had gotten rid of
his two principal go-betweens Nancy
tongue and Wang Kai wrong aka the two
ladies if you wanted to see Maui had to
go through these two as Vogel pointed
out these two saw dung star rising and
miles falling so they began to you know
get overly friendly with dung and Mao
didn't like that so they were pushed
aside and replaced and now dung has a
new foe who enters the picture this was
Molly and Sheena mouths nephew Molly and
Sheen was in awe of his uncle and never
missed an opportunity to shine his shoes
and tell him how great he was so he fit
in real nicely
the nephew loyal also to the Gang of
Four filled his uncle MA with all the
right words that filled the paranoid
mouth with suspicion about done so as we
enter the final months of 1975 dung
could already see he's cruising for a
bruising and he knows once again he's in
Mao's gun sights finally there's a
showdown in November between top
leadership and Mao is trying to get dung
to publicly agree that the Cultural
Revolution was despite the mistakes 70%
good Mao was trying to get done to say
this publicly and in the official party
record so that after Mao died it would
be too hard for dung to backpedal well
Mao himself didn't participate in these
meetings to get dung to go along with
his line so he had his nephew Mao and
Sheen duly report in after every meeting
and I'm sure like anyone in this
position he no doubt put his own spin on
the information he gave him finally done
had to face the full Politburo and jung
ching had a field day letting not only
dung have it but all of Dunn's men too
everything done Xiao Peng tried to do
during the past year was slowly
deconstructed and the radicals just
eviscerated done for all his policies
well dung should have seen it coming
he knew he was treading on thin ice with
many of his policies so when Mao turned
against him again the radicals knew they
had dung right where they wanted them at
a major meeting November 24th 1975 Mao
in a
- the group gathered there to criticize
done puts the thumb screws on dong toe
affirm the Cultural Revolution and just
come out and say it it was okay but done
was to Wiley and his responses were
evasive and basically Mao couldn't get
his way
done stood by everything he did in 1975
even if it did go against the party
orthodoxy done finished off November
December 75 getting peppered with
attacks from everyone who nailed him for
rightist reversal of verdicts which
simply means he was being criticized for
going against miles Cultural Revolution
policies and bringing back all these
rightists so not only to dumb find
himself a victim of relentless attacks
so did his key lieutenants all the
future shining stars of the 1980 reform
years who yell bang wanly jumpin Joe
wrong Sheen who Chow moved to name a few
they all got it President Gerald Ford
visited China in early December 1975 Mao
met with him on December 2nd now
although Dunn was under the gun in a big
way he still handled this whole US
presidential visit and had laid the
groundwork earlier with Kissinger so Mao
with dung present meets with Ford when
Mao and dung parted after the meeting
and photo ops it was the last time they
would ever meet again at least on this
earth and after a couple weeks after
this meeting between Mao dung and Ford
Kang Chung died and if you haven't heard
the podcast about Cong go check it out
his death was a harbinger of things to
come for these aging leaders from the
Yunnan period by early January in 1976
dung was fighting for his political life
in 1976 my friends is gonna be one of
those years for the history books in all
the modern histories of all the
countries of all the world there's
always one year that stands out in China
I suppose several years stand out 1911
1949 and 1976 in today's episode of the
China history podcast we focus in on the
Year 1970
six and we examine this turbulent year
you know next year and the year 1976
have something in common both our dragon
years Chui the first day of the new year
will be on Monday January 23rd 2012 will
usher in the year of the dragon dung
Xiao Peng was born in the year of the
dragon ma was a snake well let's just
say the New Year's front-page editorial
the people's daily carried a message
from Mao and when done read the part
about how achieving stability and unity
did not mean neglecting class struggle
he knew he still had to walk this
gauntlet yet the bottom line was Mao was
trying to browbeat dung into accepting
that one thing which was most sacred to
Mao class struggle dung time and again
said yeah it's important but it's not
the most important thing
well Mao was saying yeah it was the most
important thing and dung had his heels
dug in hard on this one and he was
prepared to take another fall and his
dung began to fall as early as October
75 so did all his initiatives that later
became associated with the four
modernizations the suka Shin da Hye well
the first h-bomb to go off in China in
1976 metaphorically speaking that is
happened on the morning of January 8th
soon into the air dung shoppings mentor
for half a century the man whose impact
on dung and therefore all the good
things China enjoys today passed away at
the age of 77
now just as we're doing with dung I'm
also gonna spend some time looking at Jo
and I one day there's more than one
school of thought regarding premier Joel
and how he's viewed by people and
posterity but I could say overall he was
beloved of the people and we'll see a
few months later when the Chinese
people's grief and emotion for their
premier starts to boil over but we're
getting ahead of ourselves so January
8th Joanne lie though absent mostly from
the daily struggles going on at the
party center he passes from the scene
thunk shell paying lost more than a
friend and mentor the first thing that
half
and was done was demoted and walk well
Thung promoted Mao personally handled
his old comrades funeral arrangements
and the prevailing attitude was that Mao
didn't give the premier his due maybe
Mao and his advanced years thought that
if he just played everything down and
didn't make a big deal the memory of Joe
and lie and all he stood for would fade
faster into oblivion mal didn't even
show up at the funeral and it was no big
state funeral no world leaders were
asked to attend do anything special so
mile couldn't make it to Joe's funeral
but he found time for Nixon when he made
his post-presidency trip to Beijing in
January 76 mom is calculated
Ezra Vogel says in his biography of dung
that the death of Joe and Lai had the
kind of impact is when Franklin
Roosevelt died or when JFK was shot he
was such a giant of a man who lived in
the shadow of a giant he had created
young Xiao ping who went on in the 1980s
to transform China Joe had been the one
all these years that kept mouths
revolutionary fuel rods from complete
nuclear meltdown he had always been the
last line of defense between mouse
experiments and the nation's complete
destruction and now he was gone there
was quite an outpouring of grief grief
because he was perceived by the law
Beijing is a good and decent man a
credit to the countries honor and
international prestige and it was also
grief over the idea of what did the
immediate future portend without Joe in
the picture even in Joe's weakened state
he was still able to protect people now
with Joe Enlai God who would protect
them now well Joe was cremated at Papa
John's cemetery which we featured in CHP
number 62 his funeral procession had
over a hundred black limos and a few
people showed up when I say a few was
between 1 and 2 million Chinese ordinary
folks braving the freezing January
Beijing cold January 12th it was
estimated that about 2 million people
showed up at one time or another
in Tiananmen Square to lay reset the
monument to the people's heroes the
iconic Romanian Jean Genie and bait at
the official party eulogy for Joe and
Lai it fell to yet geunyang to give it
but Marshall yes said that dung should
give it you know all things considered
and done gave the eulogy in front of
5000 party members Vogel mentioned said
according to one account when dung began
the speech by saying woman's only our
premier his voice broke this was a tear
jerker ever speech Vogel didn't put the
text in his book but dr. Henry Kissinger
did so I snagged it from his book I'm
only gonna read some of these words
tongue shellping said on that day about
his lifelong mentor and comrade has
taken from dr. Kissinger's book on China
quote he was open and aboveboard paid
attention to the interests of the whole
observe party discipline was strict in
dissecting himself and good at uniting
the mass of cadres and upheld the unity
and solidarity of the party he
maintained broad and close ties with the
masses and showed boundless
warm-heartedness
towards all comrades and the people we
should learn from his fine style being
modest and prudent unassuming and
approachable setting an example by his
conduct and living in a plain and
hardworking way after the speech done
was not seen again in any official
capacity for over a year he had sent
Maul a letter after Mao refused to see
him in person and in the letter dong
offered his resignation and awaited the
Chairman to decide his fate walk well
Fung is majo and lies replacement but
only has the title of acting premier at
this point shortly thereafter dung is
publicly criticized which means in
essence he's out and fair game for
attack hua steps into dungs big shoes
and from this point forward until dung
makes another comeback of the century
he's in charge so by January 1976 dung
is back in the doghouse so to speak
Mao didn't do anything to halt the
public criticism and verbal attacks but
he also didn't allow things to get out
of hand Mao began to worry that dung was
possibly gonna use his ties to all his
military cronies to do some mischief
that's how paranoid Mao had become he
proactively went after yet geunyang as
well as Dongen took precautions to
prevent those two from uniting against
him and dung was raked over the coals
yet again and the same old things were
dredged up alongside all the criticisms
of how he handled things in 1975 the
white or black cat Fang also this was
brought up and thrown at dung again Mao
had said you know as far as that whole
thing about it doesn't matter if the cat
is black or white that this was
bourgeois thinking and didn't
distinguish between imperialism and
Marxism you know so how can dumb win in
this kind of a situation and you could
imagine John Chiang and her fellows were
having a field day attacking dung and if
she went overboard
mile let her have it Mao was still
hoping Dom was gonna come around and you
know see eye to eye with him so while
Mao was more than willing to let dung
fall he placed limitations on how you
know widespread the criticism could go
and then on April 5th another earthquake
happens this one happened on the grave
sweeping festival the Ching Ming holiday
this is the holiday when you pay
respects to your ancestors and go sweep
their graves and you know tidy things up
now back in 1976 there wasn't the way
bar you know anything like that but the
people of Beijing had their own ways of
getting the word out and the word got
out that everyone should converge on
Tiananmen Square to show their support
for Joanne Lai John Chiang got wind of
this she knew the people weren't happy
about how you know Joe got short shrift
at his funeral ceremony and now they
were taking matters into their own hands
and were determined to give their
beloved premier his due and the Ching
Ming holiday was the ultimate perfect
opportunity when Zhang Qing tried to use
her mouthpiece the newspaper went way
bulk to write a criticism of
and Joe the whole thing backfired on her
and people were so outraged by this
editorial chun qiang had printed that
there was this spontaneous outpouring of
protest in Nanjing they laid thousands
and thousands of wreaths and there was a
big commotion when Jem King's people
tried to clear them away and you know
throw cold water on this whole
outpouring of support for joke
everything was building up to April 5th
the Ching Ming festival dung was being
warned if anything happened he would
have to take the blame for it even
before April 5th he began to see some
action not only were people laying
wreaths and leaving poems and messages
and support for Joe and Tung shopping as
well they were also attacking and
demonstrating all kinds of scorn for the
Gang of Four and as the day's ticked by
and April 5th came closer more and more
people had come and gone at Tiananmen
the government demanded don't lay Ries
they did anyway April 4th over 2 million
people came to pay their respects to Joe
and demonstrate their support for dung
Xiao ping and vent their spleen about
Jung ching and the Gang of Four at a
Politburo meeting held the evening
before Ching Ming it was decided that
all the wreaths that had been laid so
far should be cleared from Tiananmen
Square and this action was carried out
in the middle of the night so that the
morning of April 5th they were all gone
the people were pissed when word got
round well things got out of control and
there was a big hullabaloo
you know burned cars and a lot of
general petty destruction to make a
point it didn't get too out of hand but
it scared the heck out of the
authorities the Politburo dragged dung
in that day and gave them an
old-fashioned criticism session they
were determined to clear Tiananmen
Square of protesters all kinds of plans
were made to clear out the square using
whatever force necessary but by late
evening most people had gone home and
the last holdouts were easily
overwhelmed and hauled away the
Politburo met early the next morning to
try and figure out what had just
happened and what to do now Mao all
along was free
constantly and he's as concerned as
anyone and he insists there was a plot
behind this whole April 5th
demonstration but he doesn't point the
finger at dumb yet and in her usual
shrill and demanding way Zhang Qing was
still insisting with every breath in her
body de hey I've done kicked out of the
party but Mao though shell-shocked by
what had just happened the day before
still stands by done in this respect so
he's down but he's not out but done was
stripped of all positions of power
hua becomes the Premier instead of just
the acting premier he also becomes the
first vice chairman of the party
so pretty much he's next in line Leo
Shao Qi Lin BL they too had that dubious
honor but they didn't end up too good
afterwards we'll look at walk well Fung
in another podcast he died a few years
ago in 2008 I won't go into too much
detail now but he had his good points he
was sort of a Gerald Ford type than that
he came in for a brief time kept things
calm no pots boiled over anything and
then boom he was gone and rarely did you
ever hear from him again after that but
he got into the history books
got to hand that to him need Punisher
will function Miles said these magical
words to walk well Funke publicly on
April 30th that's all it took with you
in charge I am at peace there was a
famous painting or propaganda poster or
remember it well I saw it in China when
I was there for the first time in 1980
and it showed while sitting with hua in
his study and wise you know beaming
before Mao you know who didn't look as
good in real life as he did in the
painting but you could see from the
other papers in their hands that it's a
working session and Mao is smiling at
hua with the caption below you know like
I said the bond sure will function and
Mao should have been at peace hua was
from shangkun in Hunan hometown also of
Marshall Tung Delphi but nonetheless
he's a Hunan guy just like Chairman Mao
he was a Mao Zedong shoe-shiner going
all the way back so he met the most
important of all criteria and Mao felt
at ease that wah wouldn't judge his leg
see too harshly after he went to go you
know meet marks well now comes the best
part
tongue is now stripped of power and junk
Chang now feels she finally after so
many failed attempts has done right
where she needs him dung was vulnerable
and Mao knew this so in order to protect
him from the gang of four he orders the
military to watch out for dung and keep
him and his family safe
shortly thereafter two great friends and
old revolutionaries Wang Chun and yet
yin yang they had an initial secret
meeting over at yazz place out in the
western hills area Beijing Tong Xiao
Peng didn't know it yet but almost as
soon as he was ousted from power his
friends were already planning his rescue
they were all these behind-the-scenes
goings-on between the conspirators who
were planning not only the gang of fours
overthrow but Dung's return as well but
for the time being dung laid low in any
case on May 11th Mao had a pretty
serious heart attack and almost died and
pretty much after that he didn't even
look at party documents any more the
next big event to rock the country was
the death on July 6th of juda the pla
founder and oldest comrade of chairman
mao going all the way back to the Jing
Gong Shan days in the late 20s will
feature Judah on a future podcast
twenty-two days after marshal judah's
passing a 23 second earthquake Etta
quarter to four in the morning
measuring between seven and eight on the
Richter scale flatten the city of Tang
Xiang a quarter million people or more
were killed and the quake was so
powerful a third of the buildings in
Beijing were structurally affected
Beijing is only a little more than a
couple hours away by car from Tang Shan
the earth quakes epicenter now going
back to the times of Joe going back in
the Joe Dynasty there was this whole
notion of heavens mandates in it natural
disasters were always a sign from heaven
that the current incumbent and power was
losing its favor so when this magnitude
of an earthquake happened
you know considering the times at all
the people had to have been thinking the
same thing or at least that something
big was about to happen
well something big indeed happened
following Chairman Mao's earlier heart
attack on May 11th he had another one in
June and another one in September just
past midnight as September 8th turned
into September 9th
Chairman Mao died the next month saw the
maximum amount of drama at the highest
levels of power in the government to the
party I mean this was even better than
halts how fighting Leo Bey and swin Tran
nothing less than the total control of
China was at stake once again on the one
side were the gang of four led by Jiang
Qing
go and light on Xiao ping people men of
vision and ability who were fiercely
loyal to the Communist Party and all
that it stood for but also didn't allow
party orthodoxy to get in the way of
doing what was right or what needed to
be done so these two forces now faced
each other in a showdown
now walk will Fung comes into his own
he's the top guy now he's chairman hua
the first order of business is to deal
with mouths funeral arrangements it did
a good job and he handled this
commendably as far as dung Xiao ping
went since he was in disgrace he was
excluded from all the ceremonies but
vogel mentions that despite all that
dung erected an altar to Mao in his home
and paid his respects using his own way
once this was all out of the way it was
about 10 days or so every conceivable
kind of ceremony and whatnot to honour
miles memory but when it came to an end
jung ching took the fight right to the
enemy in the enemy was almost everyone
you see no one liked her no one outside
her immediate circle of radical elites
she had no serious friends or any kind
of power base whatsoever
she had a loud voice ambition that knew
no bounds and all along she'd used her
husband's named a smash-and-grab
whatever she wanted now he was gone at
her bark though still allowed in a
knowing was now infinitely less bigger
than her bite
she lost her fangs when Mao died
nonetheless she went on the attack and
was most aggressive with the most
important thing in the world that
mattered to everyone at this point and
that was mouths personal papers chiang
ching or one of her proxies in this case
Mao and Sheen wanted to get control of
these documents naturally whoever
controlled them could conceivably alter
them so the best thing to do was just
let Wang dong Shing handle it
Guangdong Shing who we haven't mentioned
all the sudden has a big walk-on
starring role in this part of episode 5
on the life of dung Xiao ping Wang
basically served his mouths bodyguard
that is not him personally
Wang was in charge of the eight/three
for 1 special regiment that protected
the highest leaders like a palace guard
I guess he was in charge of China's
version of our US Secret Service it's
still around today except they call it
the six one eight eight nine regimen now
he had always been a Mao man and had
excellent radical credentials having
month old machine on their side was
going to be critical if either faction
had a chance of defeating the other
rumors made it to the very top at the
gang of four were up to something that
was gonna go down between October 7th
and 9th in addition to this wild rumor
there were other signs that Jung Chang
the gang and their minions were up to no
good and you know plan to make some sort
of power grab so our hero yet yin-yang
he picks up the ball and goes to consult
with the two most important people in
the world right now for China walk while
Fung and Wong thumb King wah had sent a
leash in yen over the year to sort of
feel them out so it was after Lee and
yeah met that the planning began yet
yin-yang by the way is the Central
Military Commission vice-chairman as
well as Minister of Defense so he sort
of packs a punch it seems all three of
them yeah wah and Wong we're sort of
thinking the same thing so there was
only one thing left to do now in these
kind of situations this is where it pays
to have
and relationships and influential
positions chiang ching like I said
nobody liked her and although everyone
had to show a minimum amount of
deference everyone was just waiting for
the axe to fall on the back of her neck
and these men her enemies they had
relationships in place yet yin yang he
was only one rung below mao he was a
major force and hit a network of people
in and outside of his military power
base who he could depend on one phone
call would be all it would take
and so they planned they secretly and
very quickly planned how to deal with
the gang of four the gang all lived in
the Galea Thai guesthouse area and their
compound was guarded by their own armed
guards so rather than storm the Diaoyu
Thai compound they opted instead for a
trap
October 6th Quaqua funk all's a Standing
Committee meeting in a knock you enough
event this wasn't uncommon it was called
for a p.m. inside the chill non-high
compound a lot of history had taken
place in that complex since it was began
during the liao dynasty back in the 10th
century AD they were about to be some
major fireworks they called the meeting
at hiren hall inside the jewel non-high
compound where many an important meeting
had been held before often chaired by
Mao himself and then one by one they
came Wang Hong when first then Zhang
Xuan shell and then yahwah nian as soon
as they showed up for the meeting they
were arrested and taken before Hua
Guofeng and told they were being held by
the party center and their crimes were
gonna be investigated so three down only
one big one left to go
they got young Ching at her house they
just went in just like that and took her
from the second they took one home one
into custody until the moment Jiang Qing
was neutralized only half an hour had
passed I was at a textbook operation or
what yet yin yang way to go Hey and qua
qua fung he could just as easily have
sided with the radicals but he took the
side of China and went down in history
his role was briefed on China's main
stage but he pulled through in the
clutch and in the
days and weeks that followed wah began
to consolidate his position and received
the utmost support from yet genuinely
shen yen for the time being
no one wanted to rock the boat and the
best way to do that was to continue to
show support for Mao's chosen successor
so we'll save this for another podcast
about all the juicy details about the
Gang of Four and how they were
overthrown and all their Hot Heads were
arrested and what ultimately happened to
them and from the very first moment
until the days that follow the Chinese
military backed wah and yet up to the
hilt there was never ever a chance that
the gang and their people were gonna be
able to stand up to this kind of force
October 18th 1976 wah wah Fung made the
announcement to the whole nation about
the fall of the Gang of Four
so to say that there was joyous
celebration and dancing in the streets
is another in a long line of
understatements of the century because
the party was keeping up appearances and
you know other than smashing the Gang of
Four was business as usual until they
figured out what to do so business as
usual included continued criticism of
thunk shellping he hasn't been brought
back yet but with the Gang of Four now
out of the picture the criticism of dung
was a little less harsh well this part 5
of this overview and by now you've no
doubt figured out that dung was a force
of nature and endowed with certain
leadership qualities of charisma bagua
funk knew this as much as the next guy
and everyone knew if he brought dung
back he'd be shoved aside in no time at
all and you know what that's exactly
what happened after 2 or 3 months past
lee hsien yen and yet Chen yang began to
sort of feel around the edges and
explore if there was maybe some way to
end dongs period in the political
wilderness by mid-december dung is back
reading party documents I can't even
imagine how exhilarating this must have
been to dunk Xiao ping to not only see
the light at the end of the tunnel but
to
come back at such a time as this I bet
when he sat down in his easy-chair in
his home and lit up that cigarette and
read that first party document he must
have felt good by the end of 1976 Rod
Stewart at the hottest record on the
planet tonight's the night and in China
everyone knew Tong Xiao ping was coming
back on January 6th 1977 it was official
and soon afterwards dong no longer had
to carry the cross about April 15 on man
incident has blamed for this incident
was put squarely on the Gang of Four
instead which is where it belonged
Ian we're gonna stop right here I'm
running a little long once again but
this one was exciting wasn't it I mean
that was one heck of a year
Kang Chun December 1975 to kick the
whole thing off and Joe and lies death
April 5th tnmn incident Judah's death
tung-shun earthquake Mao's death the
arrest of the Gang of Four quite a lot
of action packed up into a single year
but it said that Dragon years are like
this sometimes so let's hope next year
when we usher in the year of the dragon
only good things happen to us all and
that's it my intelligent fascinating and
good-looking listeners we're going to
pick up next week with what else but the
topic of hua versus dong everyone knows
what's gonna happen but it's a whole
process that has to take place first and
we'll pick it up in 1977 and see how
that all plays out this is Lazlo
Montgomery once again I'm here in none
other than the city of trees and phd's
Claremont California nine one seven one
one founded in 1907 long shopping was
only three years old then it was four
degrees centigrade when I woke up this
morning only one degree cooler than it
was in Harbin in other words it was cold
take care everyone and wherever you may
be listening it is my greatest hope that
you'll join me next week for another
exciting episode of the China history
podcast